To evaluate the learning associated with these kinds of digital projects, we have developed an approach meant to further the digital literacy of students. This approach calls for reflecting on media affordances and learning outcomes through media. After completing audio or video composing projects, students were asked to use screen recording software to capture key elements of their work. They were also tasked with evaluating aspects of media and learning experiences. The videos linked below contain some of these assessments.

[GIF Reflection](https://youtu.be/TmBZbdE4Yak) Kaylie Griffin discusses the process of creating an animated GIF. She compares the process with text-only writing, noting the value of combining words and images. She notes that effective deployment of words in media projects requires design elements to help audiences take in the visual materials. Griffin also reflects on the nature of memes and GIFs, noting the need to distill messages to core elements for an online audience. She also notes the ways that imagistic elements can portray emotions. 

[Video Poem Reflection](https://youtu.be/GFLDEOTriN4) Marlon Macintyre shares insights into creating video poems and animated GIFs. Macintyre notes the ways the projects taught him about the importance of color and arrangement in media projects. He also notes the importance of pacing in video projects. He explains ways that he used video composing software to make adjustments in pacing to better engage with the audience. Macintyre also notes the role of layers in developing his composition. He also discusses the ways that insights from one project related to color were able to be translated to his work with video.

[Audio Reflection](https://youtu.be/N7X92aJy7yw) Courtney Spencer compares the affordances of single-authored audio essays and conversational podcasts. She notes the role of research in both projects. She also highlights the ways that challenges are primarily non-technical; rather, communication concerns such as tone or how best to distil and integrate research come to the fore. Spencer notes that the assignment has increased her appreciation of sounds in composing.

[Podcast Reflection Video](https://vimeo.com/332203181) Bryanna Cameron reflects on both memes and podcasts. Cameron discusses the need to distill audio materials to key points in order to deploy them in a podcast. She also notes the conversational nature of podcasts in terms of planning required for projects. Cameron also reflects on the differences between audio and visual media, and the challenges associated with discussing video materials in audio formats. 
